In this video, we're going to use our
familiar expense service microservice,
we are going to deploy to OpenShift.
So let's just start with the lab
deploy-openshift start script,
which makes sure that the project
we are going to deploy to is already
created. After the script finishes,
I just load our Openshift
configuration from /usr/local/etc/
ocp4.config file
and then use the variables to login
to the OpenShift Container Platforms.
You can see that the project
is automatically selected.
Make sure this is so for you as well.
If it isn't, just add or
issue an extra command,
oc project deploy-openshift,
RHT_OCP4_DEV_USER,
make sure this is a variable that is
loaded from the ocp4.config file.
Now let's go to DO378/
labs/deploy-openshift/expense-service/
It's just a plain source
code only directory
with a pom.xml. We see the
expense data object model,
the ExpenseResource RESTful Web Service.
We've got the import SQL here as well,
just as we've used it in one
of the previous exercises.
But what we need to do is configure
this project to be able
to work with OpenShift.
So what we will add, is the
OpenShift extension,
using quarkus:add-extension -Dextension
equals openshift.
We can see that it has been
installed and now let's
just do a clean package goal.
We are going to skip tests because
we know from previous exercises that
the application works correctly.
But we need to set the Dquarkus.kubernetes.deploy equals true.
And because we want to test it
immediately after deployment,
we're also going to set quarkus.
openshift.expose equals
true to get a route.
Maven downloads a couple of JAR files,
generates the code, compiles,
it, skips the testing,
and then packages the application.
So there we go.
This is the OpenShift
extension kicking in
and we can see that openshift
target was selected
because it has the highest
priority and it is being
detected that the current active
session actually is OpenShift,
contacts the API server and then
performs the openshift binary build.
It first applies two image streams,
1 for the base image,
1 for the expenses application.
If we have a look at what in the meantime,
oc get all tells us, it is going to
be the two image streams
that we'll see here,
the expenses image stream and the
openjdk-11 base images image stream.
After a couple of seconds,
a build configuration is created
and applied and we can see it here.
It wasn't there when we used oc get all,
it only appears,
once this line appears
in the maven output.
Then it actually starts to
build in the remainder,
the majority of the remainder of the
logs is actually OpenShift build logs.
You can see here container
file build being executed and
then ultimately some libraries being
copied to the target destination.
And once that is done,
the image is pushed into
the internal OpenShift registry
wherever the image stream points.
And once push is successful a DeploymentConfig
is created as you can see here,
so a service, DeploymentConfig and a route.
We can see indeed that
once the build completes,
there are no deployments,
there is a deployment config though,
and a replication controller
associated with it.
And here we have the Completed build pod,
the completed deployer pod from
the deployment and the
actual Running application.
Well, the BUILD reports a SUCCESS.
If we have a look again at
the state of our project,
there are 3 pods,
1 of which is running,
the other 2 have already completed.
This is a Kubernetes service
created by the OpenShift extension
and this is the route that we can
use to access our applications.
If we test it,
it just copied the URL or the host name
into the curl command and
pasted it through jq.
We can see that the 2 familiar expenses
have already been added to the list.
Now, let's have a look at
the Kubernetes resources that
were generated by the extensions.
There is now a target
directory which contains
a Kubernetes subdirectory as we
discussed it in the previous lecture.
And here we have
both the YAML and JSON versions of both the
Kubernetes in OpenShift resources.
So if we have a look at
the service configuration in
the openshift.yaml file,
we can see that it's being configured
to forward anything coming
in on port 8080 to port
8080 of whatever pod has
this particular selector or matches
this particular selector.
So it's app.kubernetes.io/
name set to the artifact
ID of your application.
And it's app.kubernetes.io/version
set to the version of your pom.xml.
If we have a look at the route as well,
it basically simply configured
to send everything coming
in to target port 8080 of
the service called expenses,
which was generated in that
resource file as well.
Right!
So let's clean up by running
lab deploy-openshift
finish and move on to the end of
chapter review lab in the next video.